---
title: I18n
sidebar_position: 4
description: Translations and Internationalisation
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

# Translation and Internationalisation (i18n)

Internationalisation (or i18n for short) is the concept of adapting a website
for another country, language or culture. It regroups the translations of text,
but also the format of dates and hours for example.

## Translations in Django

- [Django Documentation on Text Translation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/topics/i18n/translation/)

### 1. Use the `gettext` method for all texts

In your code, use the `gettext` method to signal to django that the text should
be translated:

```python
from django.utils.translation import gettext as _

def my_view(request):
    output = (
      _("Welcome on Nantral Platform %(name)s!")
      % {'name': request.user.first_name}
    )
    return HttpResponse(output)

# returns "Welcome on Nantral Platform John!"
```

For texts that are **NOT inside a function**, you must use
`gettext_lazy` instead of `gettext`:

```python
# use gettext_lazy instead of gettext!
from django.utils.translation import gettext_lazy as _

class Group(models.Model):
    name = models.CharField(_("Group Name"))
```

:::info Conventions

- In your code, write texts in **English**
- For other languages, like **French**, write the translations in the `.po` files
  (see the following section)

:::

### 2. Write the Translations

<details>
<summary>First run: install <code>gettext</code>!!!</summary>

To use the django commands for translations, you have to install the `gettext` program.

<Tabs groupId="os">
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

The `gettext` utility is not really supported on Windows. You can refer to the
[django documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/topics/i18n/translation/#gettext-on-windows),
which proposes some alternatives. However, we strongly recommend you to use
[WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/install) instead, so as to run
_Nantral Platform_ in a Linux machine (in your Windows).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="MacOS">

Run this command:

```bash
brew install gettext
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="lin" label="Linux">

Run these commands:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gettext
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
</details>

First, create or update the `.po` file:

- Go into the app where you want to add translations:
  ```bash
  cd apps/<app_name>
  ```
- Create or update the `.po` files for the French translations:
  ```bash
  pipenv run django-admin makemessages -l fr
  ```
- Open the `.po` file created in `locale/fr/LC_MESSAGES`,
  and fill in all the translations. You can also use a graphical editor,
  like [Poedit](https://poedit.net/).

### 3. Compile the translations

Once you have finished, it's time to compile the translations! Just run, in
the `backend` directory:

```bash
pipenv run django compilemessages -l fr
```

:::tip
If you use [Poedit](https://poedit.net/), the compilation is automatically
done when you save your modifications.
:::

That's it! You can now run the website, and the translations should adapt to the
selected language!

## Adding a new language

If you want to add a new language, read carefully the following steps.

### Add the language in the front end

1. Create a new file in `frontend/src/translations/<lang>.json` with the
   international code of the language (e.g. `fr-FR.json` for French).
   Make a copy of one of the existing file and translate all texts.
2. In `src/shared/i18n/config.ts`:
   - Add the language code in the `languages` array:
     ```ts
     export const languages = ['fr-FR', 'en-GB', 'en-US'] as const;
     ```
   - Import the JSON file:
     ```ts
     import translationFr from './fr-FR.json';
     ```
   - Add it to the `resources` key:
     ```ts
     resources: {
      "fr-FR": { translation: translationFr },
     },
     ```
3. In `src/shared/i18n/useTranslation.ts`, import the locale from `date-fns` and
   map it to the language previously defined in the `languages` array.
4. In `src/theme.ts`, import the locale from `@mui/x-date-pickers` and map it
   again to the same language.
5. In `src/shared/ckeditor/getCKEditorLanguage.ts`, map again the language to
   a CKEditor language.
6. Finally, in `vite.config.ts`, declare the ckeditor language to import in the
   `ckeditor5()` function from the CKEditor5 plugin.

### Add the language in the back end

1. In `config/settings/base.py`, update the `LANGUAGES` key:
   ```python
   LANGUAGES = [
      ('fr', "Français"),
      ('en', "English"),
      # your language here
   ]
   ```
2. Then create all the new `.po` files for each app:
   ```bash
   cd apps/<app_name>
   pipenv run django-admin makemessages -l <your_language_code>
   ```
3. Write all the translations, and finally compile them:
   ```bash
   pipenv run django compilemessages -l <you_language_code>
   ```

Congratulations 🥳 You added a new language!
